Basic Rules of Java Inheritance
Single Inheritance:

Java supports single inheritance, meaning a class can inherit from only one superclass directly.
Syntax: class SubClass extends SuperClass
Multiple Levels of Inheritance:

A class can be part of a multilevel inheritance hierarchy where a class inherits from another class, which in turn inherits from another class.
Object Class:

All classes in Java implicitly extend the Object class if no other superclass is specified.
The Object class is the root of the class hierarchy.
Access Control
public Members:

Public members of the superclass are accessible in the subclass.
protected Members:

Protected members are accessible in the subclass and in other classes in the same package.
Default (Package-Private) Members:

Members with no access modifier (default) are accessible in the subclass only if the subclass is in the same package as the superclass.
private Members:

Private members of the superclass are not accessible directly in the subclass.
Method Overriding
Overriding Methods:

A subclass can provide a specific implementation for a method that is already defined in its superclass.
The method in the subclass must have the same name, return type, and parameter list as the method in the superclass.
Use the @Override annotation to indicate that a method is being overridden.
Access Level in Overriding:

The access level of an overridden method cannot be more restrictive than the method in the superclass.
For example, if a superclass method is public, the overriding method in the subclass cannot be protected or private.
Covariant Return Type:

An overriding method can have a return type that is a subtype of the return type of the overridden method.
Constructors
Constructor Inheritance:

Constructors are not inherited.
The subclass constructor must explicitly call one of the superclass constructors using super().
Default Constructor:

If a class does not define any constructor, the compiler automatically provides a default no-argument constructor.
If a superclass does not have a no-argument constructor, the subclass must explicitly call a superclass constructor using super().
final Keyword
final Class:

A class declared as final cannot be subclassed.
Example: public final class FinalClass { ... }
final Methods:

A method declared as final cannot be overridden by subclasses.
Example: public final void finalMethod() { ... }
Abstract Classes and Methods
Abstract Class:

An abstract class cannot be instantiated directly.
It can have abstract methods (methods without a body) that must be implemented by subclasses.
Example: public abstract class AbstractClass { public abstract void abstractMethod(); }
Abstract Methods:

Subclasses of an abstract class must either implement all abstract methods or be declared as abstract themselves.
Interface Implementation
Multiple Interfaces:

A class can implement multiple interfaces.
Syntax: class MyClass implements Interface1, Interface2
Interface Methods:

A class that implements an interface must provide implementations for all of the interface's methods.
Inheritance and Polymorphism
Polymorphism:

A subclass object can be assigned to a superclass reference variable.
Example: SuperClass obj = new SubClass();
instanceof Operator:

The instanceof operator is used to test whether an object is an instance of a specific class or interface.
Static Members
Static Methods:

Static methods are not overridden, but hidden if redefined in a subclass.
Accessed through the class name rather than an instance.
Static Variables:

Static variables are shared among all instances of the class.
Final Considerations
super Keyword:

The super keyword is used to refer to the immediate superclass instance.
It can be used to call superclass methods and constructors.
Object Class Methods:

Methods from the Object class (e.g., toString(), equals(), hashCode()) can be overridden in subclasses.
Composition over Inheritance:

Prefer composition over inheritance when appropriate, to avoid complex and tightly coupled class hierarchies.
These rules provide a comprehensive overview of how inheritance works in Java and the guidelines for using it effectively in your code.